Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
During the many years that I served on the Armed Services Committee, we had Dr. Ralph
Lapp before us, one of our great noted nuclear physicist, a man who had much to do with the
development of the A-Bomb, who has written many books such as The Voice of the Lucky Dragon,
New Discoveries, and I'm sure all of you are familiar with this imminent scientist.
I've always wanted to have him on this program, and we have him today.
Certainly I'd like to welcome you here, Dr. Lapp.
Did I need to be here?
Dr. Lapp has great knowledge, and as much as anyone I know about missiles, atomic energy,
whether we are following the right programs or not.
So Ralph, tell us how we are getting along in connection with atomic energy and hydrogen,
hydrogen energy, vis-the-vis the Soviet Union.
What's happening in this race today?
Well, then the race, which is the race for destruction almost, it's difficult to say if one
can ever really be ahead, but our present defense policy is based upon deterrence, upon preventing
the enemy from attacking us by the power to retaliate.
And in that connection there is a great argument on Capitol Hill as to whether or not the
United States actually has sufficient power.
In my mind, it is more a question of in the future, two to three years from now, will
the United States military forces be strong enough to deter the Russians?
And I think that there are some very real doubts about this.
Well, I've been interested in whether we are making the right decision in connection with
having fixed bases for ICBMs and Atlas missiles or whether the Polaris, whether they
are a submarine, atomic submarine with the Polaris missile offers us more defense and a better
opportunity of retaliation in the event we were attacked.
Well, I think that anything that is fixed in geography, that is especially on this continent,
is now vulnerable to attack.
This wasn't originally the case because we didn't think these intercontinental ballistic
missiles would be that accurate.
Even if you harden the base nowadays and there are going to be 270 of these put in continental
USA and even if you harden these, the Russian missiles will be sufficiently accurate in 1962
and 1963 when these bases are operational so that they can knock them out.
And that means your deterrent will not be believable.
It will not survive an enemy attack, therefore he may be able to get away with whatever he
wants to.
And how about the atomic submarine with the Polaris missile which we're all very much interested
in?
It's a very superior type of deterrent for one reason that it is difficult for the enemy
to knock it out.
In other words, it is survivable.
Secondly, from the standpoint of being off the continent, it doesn't draw nuclear fire
to the United States.
Oh, Dr. Leopold, how are we getting along in connection with our rockets and our contest
and with the Soviet Union and rockets and what should we do to catch up and to get ahead?
Well, that's a big forder for a very short answer, but I'll say this.
We are behind the Russians in space.
We are behind in a space race that we ourselves announced in 1955.
We lack this thrust.
We lack the power of our rockets to put into orbit into space the kind of things the Russians
have been so successful in doing.
We have not made up that gap.
Furthermore, we have not been able to fuse together the military and the civilian aspects
of the space race.
That is a big deficiency.
We lack the leadership in this field and we lack the sense of national urgency to give
this kind of technical work the support that it needs.
I take it from a military as well as a scientific point of view.
This is very important that we have sufficient funds and we do have authority under one person
who can make decisions and decide these inter-service disputes.
I believe it is extremely important because I believe that Sputnik I was in the nature
of a disaster for the United States.
I do not believe we can sustain many of these disasters and still be knocked upon as the
number one nation in the world.
But we have the ability to catch up and to get ahead if we just put our mind to it and
have the determination to do so.
Is that your feeling?
Of that I'm convinced.
Well, thank you very much Dr. Ralph Lath and we hope to have you back again sometime.
That's all for now.